Sandbox for L4 Golang Extension (#27762)
envoyproxy/envoy: docs/root/start/sandboxes/golang-network.rst

.. _install_sandboxes_golang_network:

Golang network filter
=====================

.. sidebar:: Requirements

   .. include:: _include/docker-env-setup-link.rst

   :ref:`netcat <start_sandboxes_setup_netcat>`
        Used to send TCP data.

In this example, we show how the `Golang <https://go.dev/>`_ network filter can be used with the Envoy proxy. We also show how the Go plugins can be independently configured at runtime.

> The example Go plugin adds a "hello, " prefix to the requests received from its TCP connections. These modified requests are then proxied to an echo service that is retrieved from the configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example Go plugin adds a ``hello, `` prefix to the requests received from its TCP connections. These modified requests are then proxied to an echo service that is retrieved from the configuration file.
```

Author: done

.. code-block:: console

   $ pwd
   envoy/examples/golang-network
   $ docker compose -f docker-compose-go.yaml run --rm go_plugin_compile

The compiled library should now be in the ``lib`` folder.

.. code-block:: console

   $ ls lib
   simple.so

Step 2: Start all of our containers
***********************************

Start all the containers.

.. code-block:: console

  $ docker compose pull
  $ docker compose up --build -d
  $ docker compose ps

   NAME                            COMMAND                  SERVICE             STATUS              PORTS
   golang-network-echo_service-1   "/tcp-echo"              echo_service        running
   golang-network-proxy-1          "/docker-entrypoint.…"   proxy               running             0.0.0.0:10000->10000/tcp

In this example, we start up two containers - an echo service which simply responds to what it has received from its TCP connections, and a proxy service that utilizes a Golang plugin to process and proxy data to the echo service.

Step 3: Send some data to be handled by the Go plugin
*****************************************************

> The response from the ``nc`` command below should include the "hello, " prefix which will be added by the example Go plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response from the ``nc`` command below should include the ``hello, `` prefix which will be added by the example Go plugin.
```

Author: done

.. code-block:: console

   $ echo "world" | nc localhost 10000 2>&1
   < hello, world

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Envoy Go network filter <config_network_filters_golang>`
      Further information about the Envoy Go network filter.
   :ref:`Envoy Go HTTP filter <config_http_filters_golang>`
      Further information about the Envoy Go HTTP filter.

>    :repo:`Go plugin API <contrib/golang/common/go/api/filter.go>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :repo:`Go plugin API <contrib/golang/filters/http/source/go/pkg/http/filter.go>`
```

Author: the go plugin [api file](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/main/contrib/golang/common/go/api/filter.go) do moved to `contrib/golang/common/go/api/filter.go`, and it contains both l4/l7 filter api.
but the docs preview still reports file not found.

Reviewer: ah i see - the link is still broken on the other sandbox https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/start/sandboxes/golang#step-5-make-a-request-handled-by-the-go-plugin-using-custom-configuration

.. _install_sandboxes_golang_network:

Golang network filter
=====================

.. sidebar:: Requirements

   .. include:: _include/docker-env-setup-link.rst

   :ref:`netcat <start_sandboxes_setup_netcat>`

>         Used to send ``TCP`` data.

Reviewer: we havent always been consistent with our use of literals - but i think for an acronym like this preferably dont make it literal

>         Used to send ``TCP`` data.

Author: got it

proxy.

The Go plugin proxies TCP network connections. Proxied responses are prefixed with "hello, ".

It also shows how Go plugins can be independently configured at runtime.

Step 1: Compile the go plugin library
*************************************

Change to the ``examples/golang-network`` directory and build the go plugin library.

.. code-block:: console

   $ pwd
   envoy/examples/golang-network
   $ docker compose -f docker-compose-go.yaml run --rm go_plugin_compile

The compiled library should now be in the ``lib`` folder.

.. code-block:: console

   $ ls lib
   simple.so

Step 2: Start all of our containers
***********************************

Start all the containers.

.. code-block:: console

  $ docker compose pull
  $ docker compose up --build -d
  $ docker compose ps

   NAME                            COMMAND                  SERVICE             STATUS              PORTS
   golang-network-echo_service-1   "/tcp-echo"              echo_service        running
   golang-network-proxy-1          "/docker-entrypoint.…"   proxy               running             0.0.0.0:10000->10000/tcp

> In this example, we start up two containers - an echo service which simply responds what it received from its tcp connections, and a proxy service that utilizes a golang plugin to forward data to the echo service.

Author: really appreciate for such detailed reviews

The destination to which the golang plugin proxies data is specified by custom configuration.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   plugin_config:
      "@type": type.googleapis.com/xds.type.v3.TypedStruct
      value:

>          echo_server_addr: echo_service

Reviewer: i think move all of this information into the intro

Author: add more info into the intro

Reviewer: i think move this and consolidate the intro - this isnt really relevant to "starting the containers" and is useful as a description of how the sandbox works

Author: done, also move the yaml code to the intro, and simply describe how the example works.

Step 3: Send some data to be handled by the Go plugin
*****************************************************

> The output from the ``nc`` command below should include the "hello, " prefix added by the simple Go plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response from the ``nc`` command below should include the "hello, " prefix which will be added by the example Go plugin.
```
